PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.
PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.
PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.

PREFACE


Of all the sovereigns that have worn the crown of England, Queen
Elizabeth is the most puzzling, the most fascinating, the most blindly
praised, and the most unjustly blamed. To make lists of her faults and
virtues is easy. One may say with little fear of contradiction that her
intellect was magnificent and her vanity almost incredibly childish;
that she was at one time the most outspoken of women, at another the
most untruthful; that on one occasion she would manifest a dignity
that was truly sovereign, while on another the rudeness of her manners
was unworthy of even the age in which she lived. Sometimes she was the
strongest of the strong, sometimes the weakest of the weak.

At a distance of three hundred years it is not easy to balance these
claims to censure and to admiration, but at least no one should forget
that the little white hand of which she was so vain guided the ship of
state with most consummate skill in its perilous passage through the
troubled waters of the latter half of the sixteenth century.